docs/user/ppl/functions/json.rst, before:

====================
JSON Functions
====================

.. rubric:: Table of contents

.. contents::
   :local:
   :depth: 1

JSON_VALID
----------

Description
>>>>>>>>>>>

Usage: `json_valid(json_string)` checks if `json_string` is a valid JSON-encoded string.

Argument type: STRING

Return type: BOOLEAN

Example::

    > source=json_test | eval is_valid = json_valid(json_string) | fields test_name, json_string, is_valid
    fetched rows / total rows = 6/6
    +---------------------+---------------------------------+----------+
    | test_name           | json_string                     | is_valid |
    |---------------------|---------------------------------|----------|
    | json nested object  | {"a":"1","b":{"c":"2","d":"3"}} | True     |
    | json object         | {"a":"1","b":"2"}               | True     |
    | json array          | [1, 2, 3, 4]                    | True     |
    | json scalar string  | "abc"                           | True     |
    | json empty string   |                                 | True     |
    | json invalid object | {"invalid":"json", "string"}    | False    |
    +---------------------+---------------------------------+----------+

JSON
----------

Description
>>>>>>>>>>>

Usage: `json(value)` Evaluates whether a string can be parsed as a json-encoded string. Returns the value if valid, null otherwise.

Argument type: STRING

Return type: STRING

Example::

    > source=json_test | where json_valid(json_string) | eval json=json(json_string) | fields test_name, json_string, json
    fetched rows / total rows = 5/5
    +---------------------+---------------------------------+-------------------------+
    | test_name           | json_string                     | json                    |
    |---------------------|---------------------------------|-------------------------|
    | json nested object  | {"a":"1","b":{"c":"2","d":"3"}} | {a:"1",b:{c:"2",d:"3"}} |
    | json object         | {"a":"1","b":"2"}               | {a:"1",b:"2"}           |
    | json array          | [1, 2, 3, 4]                    | [1,2,3,4]               |
    | json scalar string  | "abc"                           | "abc"                   |
    | json empty string   |                                 | null                    |
    +---------------------+---------------------------------+-------------------------+

JSON_OBJECT
----------

Description
>>>>>>>>>>>

Usage: `json_object(key1, value1, key2, value2...)` create a json object string with key value pairs. The key must be string.

Argument type: key1: STRING, value1: ANY, key2: STRING, value2: ANY ...

Return type: STRING

Example::

    > source=json_test | eval test_json = json_object('key', 123.45) | head 1 | fields test_json
    fetched rows / total rows = 1/1
    +-------------------------+
    | test_json               |
    |-------------------------|
    | {"key":123.45}          |
    +-------------------------+

JSON_ARRAY
----------

Description
>>>>>>>>>>>

Usage: `json_array(element1, element2, ...)` create a json array string with elements.

Argument type: element1: ANY, element2: ANY ...

Return type: STRING

Example::

    > source=json_test | eval test_json_array = json_array('key', 123.45) | head 1 | fields test_json_array
    fetched rows / total rows = 1/1
    +-------------------------+
    | test_json_array         |
    |-------------------------|
    | ["key",123.45]          |
    +-------------------------+

JSON_ARRAY_LENGTH
----------

Description
>>>>>>>>>>>

Usage: `json_array_length(value)` parse the string to json array and return size, if can't be parsed, return null

Argument type: value: A JSON STRING

Return type: INTEGER

Example::

    > source=json_test | eval array_length = json_array_length("[1,2,3]") | head 1 | fields array_length
    fetched rows / total rows = 1/1
    +-------------------------+
    | array_length            |
    |-------------------------|
    | 3                       |
    +-------------------------+

    > source=json_test | eval array_length = json_array_length("{\"1\": 2}") | head 1 | fields array_length
    fetched rows / total rows = 1/1
    +-------------------------+
    | array_length            |
    |-------------------------|
    | null                    |
    +-------------------------+

JSON_EXTRACT
----------

Description
>>>>>>>>>>>

Usage: `json_extract(json_string, path1, path2, ...)` Extracts values using the specified JSON paths. If only one path is provided, it returns a single value. If multiple paths are provided, it returns a JSON Array in the order of the paths. If one path cannot find value, return null as the result for this path. The path use "{<index>}" to represent index for array, "{}" means "{*}".

Argument type: json_string: STRING, path1: STRING, path2: STRING ...

Return type: STRING

Example::

    > source=json_test | eval extract = json_extract('{"a": [{"b": 1}, {"b": 2}]}', 'a{}.b') | head 1 | fields extract
    fetched rows / total rows = 1/1
    +-------------------------+
    | test_json_array         |
    |-------------------------|
    | [1,2]                   |
    +-------------------------+

     > source=json_test | eval extract = json_extract('{"a": [{"b": 1}, {"b": 2}]}', 'a{}.b', 'a{}') | head 1 | fields extract
    fetched rows / total rows = 1/1
    +---------------------------------+
    | test_json_array                 |
    |---------------------------------|
    | [[1,2],[{"b": 1}, {"b": 2}]]    |
    +---------------------------------+

JSON_DELETE
----------

Description
>>>>>>>>>>>

Usage: `json_delete(json_string, path1, path2, ...)` Delete values using the specified JSON paths. Return the json string after deleting. If one path cannot find value, do nothing.

Argument type: json_string: STRING, path1: STRING, path2: STRING ...

Return type: STRING

Example::

    > source=json_test | eval delete = json_delete('{"a": [{"b": 1}, {"b": 2}]}', 'a{0}.b') | head 1 | fields delete
    fetched rows / total rows = 1/1
    +-------------------------+
    | delete                  |
    |-------------------------|
    | {"a": [{},{"b": 1}]}    |
    +-------------------------+

    > source=json_test | eval delete = json_delete('{"a": [{"b": 1}, {"b": 2}]}', 'a{0}.b', 'a{1}.b') | head 1 | fields delete
    fetched rows / total rows = 1/1
    +-------------------------+
    | delete                  |
    |-------------------------|
    | {"a": []}               |
    +-------------------------+

    > source=json_test | eval delete = json_delete('{"a": [{"b": 1}, {"b": 2}]}', 'a{2}.b') | head 1 | fields delete
    fetched rows / total rows = 1/1
    +------------------------------+
    | delete                       |
    |------------------------------|
    | {"a": [{"b": 1}, {"b": 2}]}  |
    +------------------------------+

JSON_SET
----------

Description
>>>>>>>>>>>

Usage: `json_set(json_string, path1, value1,  path2, value2...)` Set values to corresponding paths using the specified JSON paths. If one path's parent node is not a json object, skip the path. Return the json string after setting.

Argument type: json_string: STRING, path1: STRING, value1: ANY, path2: STRING, value2: ANY ...

Return type: STRING

Example::

    > source=json_test | eval jsonSet = json_set('{"a": [{"b": 1}]}', 'a{0}.b', 3) | head 1 | fields jsonSet
    fetched rows / total rows = 1/1
    +-------------------------+
    | jsonSet                 |
    |-------------------------|
    | {"a": [{"b": 3}]}       |
    +-------------------------+

    > source=json_test | eval jsonSet = json_set('{"a": [{"b": 1}, {"b": 2}]}', 'a{0}.b', 3, 'a{1}.b', 4) | head 1 | fields jsonSet
    fetched rows / total rows = 1/1
    +-----------------------------+
    | jsonSet                     |
    |-----------------------------|
    | {"a": [{"b": 3},{"b": 4}]}  |
    +-----------------------------+

JSON_APPEND
----------

Description
>>>>>>>>>>>

Usage: `json_append(json_string, path1, value1,  path2, value2...)` Append values to corresponding paths using the specified JSON paths. If one path's target node is not an array, skip the path. Return the json string after setting.

Argument type: json_string: STRING, path1: STRING, value1: ANY, path2: STRING, value2: ANY ...

Return type: STRING

Example::

    > source=json_test | eval jsonAppend = json_set('{"a": [{"b": 1}]}', 'a', 3) | head 1 | fields jsonAppend
    fetched rows / total rows = 1/1
    +-------------------------+
    | jsonAppend              |
    |-------------------------|
    | {"a": [{"b": 1}, 3]}    |
    +-------------------------+

    > source=json_test | eval jsonAppend = json_append('{"a": [{"b": 1}, {"b": 2}]}', 'a{0}.b', 3, 'a{1}.b', 4) | head 1 | fields jsonAppend
    fetched rows / total rows = 1/1
    +-------------------------+
    | jsonAppend              |
    |-------------------------|
    | {"a": [{"b": 1}, 3]}    |
    +-------------------------+

     > source=json_test | eval jsonAppend = json_append('{"a": [{"b": 1}]}', 'a', '[1,2]', 'a{1}.b', 4) | head 1 | fields jsonAppend
    fetched rows / total rows = 1/1
    +----------------------------+
    | jsonAppend                 |
    |----------------------------|
    | {"a": [{"b": 1}, "[1,2]"]} |
    +----------------------------+

JSON_EXTEND
----------

Description
>>>>>>>>>>>

Usage: `json_extend(json_string, path1, value1,  path2, value2...)` Extend values to corresponding paths using the specified JSON paths. If one path's target node is not an array, skip the path. The function will try to parse the value as an array. If it can be parsed, extend it to the target array. Otherwise, regard the value a single one. Return the json string after setting.

Argument type: json_string: STRING, path1: STRING, value1: ANY, path2: STRING, value2: ANY ...

Return type: STRING

Example::

    > source=json_test | eval jsonExtend = json_extend('{"a": [{"b": 1}]}', 'a', 3) | head 1 | fields jsonExtend
    fetched rows / total rows = 1/1
    +-------------------------+
    | jsonExtend              |
    |-------------------------|
    | {"a": [{"b": 1}, 3]}    |
    +-------------------------+

    > source=json_test | eval jsonExtend = json_extend('{"a": [{"b": 1}, {"b": 2}]}', 'a{0}.b', 3, 'a{1}.b', 4) | head 1 | fields jsonExtend
    fetched rows / total rows = 1/1
    +-------------------------+
    | jsonExtend              |
    |-------------------------|
    | {"a": [{"b": 1}, 3]}    |
    +-------------------------+

     > source=json_test | eval jsonExtend = json_extend('{"a": [{"b": 1}]}', 'a', '[1,2]') | head 1 | fields jsonExtend
    fetched rows / total rows = 1/1
    +----------------------------+
    | jsonExtend                 |
    |----------------------------|
    | {"a": [{"b": 1},1,2]}      |
    +----------------------------+

JSON_KEYS
----------

Description
>>>>>>>>>>>

Usage: `json_keys(json_string)` Return the key list of the Json object as a Json array. Otherwise, return null.

Argument type: json_string: A JSON STRING

Return type: STRING

Example::

    > source=json_test | eval jsonKeys = json_keys('{"a": 1, "b": 2}') | head 1 | fields jsonKeys
    fetched rows / total rows = 1/1
    +-------------------------+
    | jsonKeys                |
    |-------------------------|
    | ["a","b"]               |
    +-------------------------+

    > source=json_test | eval jsonKeys = json_keys('{"a": {"c": 1}, "b": 2}') | head 1 | fields jsonKeys
    fetched rows / total rows = 1/1
    +-------------------------+
    | jsonKeys                |
    |-------------------------|
    | ["a","b"]               |
    +-------------------------+

Commit message:

add json path
Signed-off-by: xinyual <xinyual@amazon.com>

docs/user/ppl/functions/json.rst, after:

====================
JSON Functions
====================

.. rubric:: Table of contents

.. contents::
   :local:
   :depth: 1



JsonPath: All JSON paths used in JSON functions follow the format <key1>{<index1>}.<key2>{<index2>}..., where each <key> represents a field name, and {<index>} is an optional array index used only when the corresponding key refers to an array. For example, a{2}.b{0} refers to the element at index 0 of the b array, which is nested inside the element at index 2 of the a array.

The {<index>} notation applies only when the associated key points to an array. If {} is used without a specific index (i.e., {}), it is interpreted as a wildcard equivalent to {*}, meaning all elements in the array at that level.


JSON_VALID
----------

Description
>>>>>>>>>>>

Usage: `json_valid(json_string)` checks if `json_string` is a valid JSON-encoded string.

Argument type: STRING

Return type: BOOLEAN

Example::

    > source=json_test | eval is_valid = json_valid(json_string) | fields test_name, json_string, is_valid
    fetched rows / total rows = 6/6
    +---------------------+---------------------------------+----------+
    | test_name           | json_string                     | is_valid |
    |---------------------|---------------------------------|----------|
    | json nested object  | {"a":"1","b":{"c":"2","d":"3"}} | True     |
    | json object         | {"a":"1","b":"2"}               | True     |
    | json array          | [1, 2, 3, 4]                    | True     |
    | json scalar string  | "abc"                           | True     |
    | json empty string   |                                 | True     |
    | json invalid object | {"invalid":"json", "string"}    | False    |
    +---------------------+---------------------------------+----------+

JSON
----------

Description
>>>>>>>>>>>

Usage: `json(value)` Evaluates whether a string can be parsed as a json-encoded string. Returns the value if valid, null otherwise.

Argument type: STRING

Return type: STRING

Example::

    > source=json_test | where json_valid(json_string) | eval json=json(json_string) | fields test_name, json_string, json
    fetched rows / total rows = 5/5
    +---------------------+---------------------------------+-------------------------+
    | test_name           | json_string                     | json                    |
    |---------------------|---------------------------------|-------------------------|
    | json nested object  | {"a":"1","b":{"c":"2","d":"3"}} | {a:"1",b:{c:"2",d:"3"}} |
    | json object         | {"a":"1","b":"2"}               | {a:"1",b:"2"}           |
    | json array          | [1, 2, 3, 4]                    | [1,2,3,4]               |
    | json scalar string  | "abc"                           | "abc"                   |
    | json empty string   |                                 | null                    |
    +---------------------+---------------------------------+-------------------------+

JSON_OBJECT
----------

Description
>>>>>>>>>>>

Usage: `json_object(key1, value1, key2, value2...)` create a json object string with key value pairs. The key must be string.

Argument type: key1: STRING, value1: ANY, key2: STRING, value2: ANY ...

Return type: STRING

Example::

    > source=json_test | eval test_json = json_object('key', 123.45) | head 1 | fields test_json
    fetched rows / total rows = 1/1
    +-------------------------+
    | test_json               |
    |-------------------------|
    | {"key":123.45}          |
    +-------------------------+

JSON_ARRAY
----------

Description
>>>>>>>>>>>

Usage: `json_array(element1, element2, ...)` create a json array string with elements.

Argument type: element1: ANY, element2: ANY ...

Return type: STRING

Example::

    > source=json_test | eval test_json_array = json_array('key', 123.45) | head 1 | fields test_json_array
    fetched rows / total rows = 1/1
    +-------------------------+
    | test_json_array         |
    |-------------------------|
    | ["key",123.45]          |
    +-------------------------+

JSON_ARRAY_LENGTH
----------

Description
>>>>>>>>>>>

Usage: `json_array_length(value)` parse the string to json array and return size, if can't be parsed, return null

Argument type: value: A JSON STRING

Return type: INTEGER

Example::

    > source=json_test | eval array_length = json_array_length("[1,2,3]") | head 1 | fields array_length
    fetched rows / total rows = 1/1
    +-------------------------+
    | array_length            |
    |-------------------------|
    | 3                       |
    +-------------------------+

    > source=json_test | eval array_length = json_array_length("{\"1\": 2}") | head 1 | fields array_length
    fetched rows / total rows = 1/1
    +-------------------------+
    | array_length            |
    |-------------------------|
    | null                    |
    +-------------------------+

JSON_EXTRACT
----------

Description
>>>>>>>>>>>

Usage: `json_extract(json_string, path1, path2, ...)` Extracts values using the specified JSON paths. If only one path is provided, it returns a single value. If multiple paths are provided, it returns a JSON Array in the order of the paths. If one path cannot find value, return null as the result for this path. The path use "{<index>}" to represent index for array, "{}" means "{*}".

Argument type: json_string: STRING, path1: STRING, path2: STRING ...

Return type: STRING

Example::

    > source=json_test | eval extract = json_extract('{"a": [{"b": 1}, {"b": 2}]}', 'a{}.b') | head 1 | fields extract
    fetched rows / total rows = 1/1
    +-------------------------+
    | test_json_array         |
    |-------------------------|
    | [1,2]                   |
    +-------------------------+

     > source=json_test | eval extract = json_extract('{"a": [{"b": 1}, {"b": 2}]}', 'a{}.b', 'a{}') | head 1 | fields extract
    fetched rows / total rows = 1/1
    +---------------------------------+
    | test_json_array                 |
    |---------------------------------|
    | [[1,2],[{"b": 1}, {"b": 2}]]    |
    +---------------------------------+

JSON_DELETE
----------

Description
>>>>>>>>>>>

Usage: `json_delete(json_string, path1, path2, ...)` Delete values using the specified JSON paths. Return the json string after deleting. If one path cannot find value, do nothing.

Argument type: json_string: STRING, path1: STRING, path2: STRING ...

Return type: STRING

Example::

    > source=json_test | eval delete = json_delete('{"a": [{"b": 1}, {"b": 2}]}', 'a{0}.b') | head 1 | fields delete
    fetched rows / total rows = 1/1
    +-------------------------+
    | delete                  |
    |-------------------------|
    | {"a": [{},{"b": 1}]}    |
    +-------------------------+

    > source=json_test | eval delete = json_delete('{"a": [{"b": 1}, {"b": 2}]}', 'a{0}.b', 'a{1}.b') | head 1 | fields delete
    fetched rows / total rows = 1/1
    +-------------------------+
    | delete                  |
    |-------------------------|
    | {"a": []}               |
    +-------------------------+

    > source=json_test | eval delete = json_delete('{"a": [{"b": 1}, {"b": 2}]}', 'a{2}.b') | head 1 | fields delete
    fetched rows / total rows = 1/1
    +------------------------------+
    | delete                       |
    |------------------------------|
    | {"a": [{"b": 1}, {"b": 2}]}  |
    +------------------------------+

JSON_SET
----------

Description
>>>>>>>>>>>

Usage: `json_set(json_string, path1, value1,  path2, value2...)` Set values to corresponding paths using the specified JSON paths. If one path's parent node is not a json object, skip the path. Return the json string after setting.

Argument type: json_string: STRING, path1: STRING, value1: ANY, path2: STRING, value2: ANY ...

Return type: STRING

Example::

    > source=json_test | eval jsonSet = json_set('{"a": [{"b": 1}]}', 'a{0}.b', 3) | head 1 | fields jsonSet
    fetched rows / total rows = 1/1
    +-------------------------+
    | jsonSet                 |
    |-------------------------|
    | {"a": [{"b": 3}]}       |
    +-------------------------+

    > source=json_test | eval jsonSet = json_set('{"a": [{"b": 1}, {"b": 2}]}', 'a{0}.b', 3, 'a{1}.b', 4) | head 1 | fields jsonSet
    fetched rows / total rows = 1/1
    +-----------------------------+
    | jsonSet                     |
    |-----------------------------|
    | {"a": [{"b": 3},{"b": 4}]}  |
    +-----------------------------+

JSON_APPEND
----------

Description
>>>>>>>>>>>

Usage: `json_append(json_string, path1, value1,  path2, value2...)` Append values to corresponding paths using the specified JSON paths. If one path's target node is not an array, skip the path. Return the json string after setting.

Argument type: json_string: STRING, path1: STRING, value1: ANY, path2: STRING, value2: ANY ...

Return type: STRING

Example::

    > source=json_test | eval jsonAppend = json_set('{"a": [{"b": 1}]}', 'a', 3) | head 1 | fields jsonAppend
    fetched rows / total rows = 1/1
    +-------------------------+
    | jsonAppend              |
    |-------------------------|
    | {"a": [{"b": 1}, 3]}    |
    +-------------------------+

    > source=json_test | eval jsonAppend = json_append('{"a": [{"b": 1}, {"b": 2}]}', 'a{0}.b', 3, 'a{1}.b', 4) | head 1 | fields jsonAppend
    fetched rows / total rows = 1/1
    +-------------------------+
    | jsonAppend              |
    |-------------------------|
    | {"a": [{"b": 1}, 3]}    |
    +-------------------------+

     > source=json_test | eval jsonAppend = json_append('{"a": [{"b": 1}]}', 'a', '[1,2]', 'a{1}.b', 4) | head 1 | fields jsonAppend
    fetched rows / total rows = 1/1
    +----------------------------+
    | jsonAppend                 |
    |----------------------------|
    | {"a": [{"b": 1}, "[1,2]"]} |
    +----------------------------+

JSON_EXTEND
----------

Description
>>>>>>>>>>>

Usage: `json_extend(json_string, path1, value1,  path2, value2...)` Extend values to corresponding paths using the specified JSON paths. If one path's target node is not an array, skip the path. The function will try to parse the value as an array. If it can be parsed, extend it to the target array. Otherwise, regard the value a single one. Return the json string after setting.

Argument type: json_string: STRING, path1: STRING, value1: ANY, path2: STRING, value2: ANY ...

Return type: STRING

Example::

    > source=json_test | eval jsonExtend = json_extend('{"a": [{"b": 1}]}', 'a', 3) | head 1 | fields jsonExtend
    fetched rows / total rows = 1/1
    +-------------------------+
    | jsonExtend              |
    |-------------------------|
    | {"a": [{"b": 1}, 3]}    |
    +-------------------------+

    > source=json_test | eval jsonExtend = json_extend('{"a": [{"b": 1}, {"b": 2}]}', 'a{0}.b', 3, 'a{1}.b', 4) | head 1 | fields jsonExtend
    fetched rows / total rows = 1/1
    +-------------------------+
    | jsonExtend              |
    |-------------------------|
    | {"a": [{"b": 1}, 3]}    |
    +-------------------------+

     > source=json_test | eval jsonExtend = json_extend('{"a": [{"b": 1}]}', 'a', '[1,2]') | head 1 | fields jsonExtend
    fetched rows / total rows = 1/1
    +----------------------------+
    | jsonExtend                 |
    |----------------------------|
    | {"a": [{"b": 1},1,2]}      |
    +----------------------------+

JSON_KEYS
----------

Description
>>>>>>>>>>>

Usage: `json_keys(json_string)` Return the key list of the Json object as a Json array. Otherwise, return null.

Argument type: json_string: A JSON STRING

Return type: STRING

Example::

    > source=json_test | eval jsonKeys = json_keys('{"a": 1, "b": 2}') | head 1 | fields jsonKeys
    fetched rows / total rows = 1/1
    +-------------------------+
    | jsonKeys                |
    |-------------------------|
    | ["a","b"]               |
    +-------------------------+

    > source=json_test | eval jsonKeys = json_keys('{"a": {"c": 1}, "b": 2}') | head 1 | fields jsonKeys
    fetched rows / total rows = 1/1
    +-------------------------+
    | jsonKeys                |
    |-------------------------|
    | ["a","b"]               |
    +-------------------------+
